README.md, before:

[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.nhl.dflib/dflib.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/com.nhl.dflib/dflib/)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/nhl/dflib/workflows/build%20test%20deploy/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/nhl/dflib/actions)

# DFLib

DFLib ("DataFrame Library") is a lightweight pure Java implementation of a common
DataFrame data structure. With DFLib you get essentially the same data 
manipulation tools you may be used to in SQL (such as queries and joins), 
only you can use them in-memory and over dynamically defined data structures.


It is somewhat close to Python [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/), except it is intended to be used 
with Java and other JVM languages.

## Project Links

* [Getting Started](https://nhl.github.io/dflib-docs/#_getting_started_with_dflib)
* [Documentation](https://nhl.github.io/dflib-docs/)


### Older Stuff

* a 20 min presentation of an early version of DFLib. Demonstrates the idea of the project...

[![DFLib at WODay Frankfurt](http://img.youtube.com/vi/WSqvEdRZsuE/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WSqvEdRZsuE)

Commit message:

mention connectors in the docs

README.md, after:

[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.nhl.dflib/dflib.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/com.nhl.dflib/dflib/)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/nhl/dflib/workflows/build%20test%20deploy/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/nhl/dflib/actions)

# DFLib

DFLib ("DataFrame Library") is a lightweight pure Java implementation of a common
DataFrame data structure. With DFLib you get essentially the same data 
manipulation tools you may be used to in SQL (such as queries and joins), 
only you can use them in-memory and over dynamically defined data structures.

It is somewhat close to Python [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/), except it is intended to be used 
with Java and other JVM languages.

DFLib comes with connectors for a variety of data formats: CSV, Excel, RDBMS (JDBC), Avro, JSON, etc.

## Project Links

* [Getting Started](https://nhl.github.io/dflib-docs/#_getting_started_with_dflib)
* [Documentation](https://nhl.github.io/dflib-docs/)


### Older Stuff

* a 20 min presentation of an early version of DFLib. Demonstrates the idea of the project...

[![DFLib at WODay Frankfurt](http://img.youtube.com/vi/WSqvEdRZsuE/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WSqvEdRZsuE)
